Initial implementation (#4)
cisagov/ansible-role-manage-thp: README.md

[![GitHub Build Status](https://github.com/cisagov/ansible-role-manage-thp/workflows/build/badge.svg)](https://github.com/cisagov/ansible-role-manage-thp/actions)
[![CodeQL](https://github.com/cisagov/ansible-role-manage-thp/workflows/CodeQL/badge.svg)](https://github.com/cisagov/ansible-role-manage-thp/actions/workflows/codeql-analysis.yml)

An Ansible role that creates a SystemD unit to manage Transparent HugePage (THP)
settings on Linux systems. This role is inspired by the
[GekoCloud/ansible-role-disable-thp](https://github.com/GekoCloud/ansible-role-disable-thp)
role.

## Requirements ##

None.

## Role Variables ##

> [!NOTE]
> Although none of the variables that control settings are individually required,
> at least one of them must be defined.

| Variable | Description | Default | Required |
|----------|-------------|---------|----------|
| manage\_thp\_defrag\_path | The sysfs path to control the Transparent HugePage `defrag` setting. | `/sys/kernel/mm/transparent_hugepage/defrag` | No |

> | manage\_thp\_defrag\_setting | If defined it must be a value of `always`, `defer`, `defer+madvise`, `madvise`, or `never`. Please see the [kernel documentation] for more information. | n/a | No |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| manage\_thp\_defrag\_setting | If defined this variable must be given a value of `always`, `defer`, `defer+madvise`, `madvise`, or `never`. Please see the [kernel documentation] for more information. | n/a | No |
```

| manage\_thp\_enabled\_path | The sysfs path to control the Transparent HugePage `enabled` setting. | `/sys/kernel/mm/transparent_hugepage/enabled` | No |

> | manage\_thp\_enabled\_setting | A value of `always`, `madvise`, or `never`. Please see the [kernel documentation] for more information. | n/a | No |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| manage\_thp\_enabled\_setting | If defined this variable must be given a value of `always`, `madvise`, or `never`. Please see the [kernel documentation] for more information. | n/a | No |
```

| manage\_thp\_service\_name | The name of the SystemD service that is created to manage Transparent HugePage settings. Please note that `.service` is appended to this value in the name of the unit file created. | `configure-transparent-hugepage-settings` | No |
| manage\_thp\_shmem\_enabled\_path | The sysfs path to control the Transparent HugePage `shmem_enabled` setting. | `/sys/kernel/mm/transparent_hugepage/shmem_enabled` | No |

> | manage\_thp\_shmem\_enabled\_setting | If defined it must be a value of `always`, `within_size`, `advise`, `never`, `deny`, or `force`. Please see the [kernel documentation] for more information. | n/a | No |

Reviewer 2: Alphabetize?
```suggestion
| manage\_thp\_shmem\_enabled\_setting | If defined it must be a value of `advise`, `always`, `deny`, `force`, `never`, or `within_size`. Please see the [kernel documentation] for more information. | n/a | No |
```

Reviewer: If @mcdonnnj is copying from the Linux documentation then I recommend retaining the same order used there.

Author: The sorting for all of these is based on output like so:

```console
$ cat /sys/kernel/mm/transparent_hugepage/shmem_enabled
always within_size advise [never] deny force
```

I elected to duplicate the ordering to align with how it is presented if done manually. Looking at the kernel documentation linked the ordering they have appears to be: `always`, `never`, `within_size`, `advise`, `deny`, `force`

Reviewer: I'm fine with the ordering as it is.  I'm also fine if you want to alphabetize it.

Reviewer 2: Either is fine with me.  If we don't alphabetize, can we put a comment somewhere in here so that we don't revisit this in the future.

Author: @dav3r @jsf9k would you take a look at [259b4a3](https://github.com/cisagov/ansible-role-manage-thp/pull/4/commits/259b4a32ff6962c2d6e2894687b377fb79e39774) and see what that does for you?

Reviewer 2: That comment works for me, thanks!  I'm resolving this conversation.  @jsf9k feel free to reopen if you want any adjustments.

Reviewer: Works for me too!

| manage\_thp\_start\_before\_service | The name of the service that the SystemD unit file should be configured to start before. Please note that `.service` is appended to this value in the definition of the `Before` directive. | n/a | No |
| manage\_thp\_use\_zero\_page\_path | The sysfs path to control the Transparent HugePage `use_zero_page` setting. | `/sys/kernel/mm/transparent_hugepage/use_zero_page` | No |

> | manage\_thp\_use\_zero\_page\_setting | If defined it must be a value of `0` or `1`. Please see the [kernel documentation] for more information. | n/a | No |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| manage\_thp\_use\_zero\_page\_setting | If defined this variable must be given a value of `0` or `1`. Please see the [kernel documentation] for more information. | n/a | No |
```
